Release Notes for FG/NG Mar 15 2023 (#977)
harness/developer-hub: release-notes/continuous-delivery.md

Additionally, the release notes below are only for NextGen SaaS. FirstGen SaaS release notes are available [here](/docs/first-gen/firstgen-release-notes/harness-saa-s-release-notes) and Self-Managed Enterprise Edition release notes are available [here](/release-notes/self-managed-enterprise-edition).
:::

## March 15, 2023, version 787xx

### What's new

- The [Jira Update](https://developer.harness.io/docs/continuous-delivery/cd-advanced/ticketing-systems-category/update-jira-issues-in-cd-stages) step now supports updating the issue type. (CDS-53876)

  When you update a Jira issue using the Jira Update step, you can now update the issue type. For example, if the issue you are updating is a Story, you can update it to a Task.

>   To update an issue type, you add a new field named `Issue Type` and give it the new type in its **Value**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  To update an issue type, add a new field named `Issue Type` and mention the new type in its **Value**.
```

```
```mdx-code-block
<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="YAML" label="YAML" default>
```

```yaml
              - step:
                type: JiraUpdate
                name: Jira Update_1
                identifier: JiraUpdate_1
                spec:
                  connectorRef: fcdx
                  issueKey: <+execution.steps.JiraCreate_1.issue.key>
                  transitionTo:
                    transitionName: ""
                    status: Done
                  fields:
                    - name: Description
                      value: Improve feature X.
                    - name: Issue Type
                      value: Task
```

```mdx-code-block
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="Pipeline Studio" label="Pipeline Studio">
```

  ![update issue type](static/e7593d80236125833f145babe470114b8fa5edb75633c507c20e176dd3c40ed2.png)

```mdx-code-block
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>
```
- You can now use a Personal Access Token (PAT) in a Jira connector. (CDS-52847)

  A Jira connector connects Harness with your Jira account for creating and updating issues during a pipeline execution.

  The Jira connector has supported username and password for authentication and now supports a PAT.

>   The PAT is added to Harness as a Harness secret and then selected in the Jira connector.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 The PAT is added to Harness as a Harness secret, and selected in the Jira connector.
```

```mdx-code-block
import Tabs1 from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem1 from '@theme/TabItem';
```
```mdx-code-block
<Tabs1>
  <TabItem1 value="YAML" label="YAML" default>
```

```yaml
connector:
  name: jiraPat
  identifier: jiraPat
  description: ""
  orgIdentifier: default
  projectIdentifier: myproject
  type: Jira
  spec:
    jiraUrl: https://jira.dev.example.io/
    delegateSelectors:
      - test
    auth:
      type: PersonalAccessToken
      spec:
        patRef: pat

```

```mdx-code-block
  </TabItem1>
  <TabItem1 value="Pipeline Studio" label="YAML">
```

![Jira connector PAT](static/5a617c9bac51ba7712f2cd2342446969c6bb8a5497a83ea7fba543cc75f50cd1.png)

```mdx-code-block
  </TabItem1>
</Tabs1>
```

### Early access

> - Large repos are now supported for [Azure Repo](https://developer.harness.io/docs/platform/connectors/connect-to-a-azure-repo/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Large repositories are now supported for [Azure Repo](https://developer.harness.io/docs/platform/connectors/connect-to-a-azure-repo/). This functionality is behind a feature flag, `OPTIMIZED_GIT_FETCH_FILES`.
```

>   Harness performs a `git clone` to fetch files. If the fetch is timing out, it can be because the repo is too large for the network connection to fetch it before timing out. To fetch very large repos from Azure Repo, enable the feature flag `OPTIMIZED_GIT_FETCH_FILES`. When this feature flag is enabled, Harness will use provider-specific APIs to improve performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Harness performs a `git clone` to fetch files. When fetching very large repositories, the network connection may time out. Enable the feature flag, `OPTIMIZED_GIT_FETCH_FILES` to fetch very large repositories from Azure Repo. When this feature flag is enabled, Harness will use provider-specific APIs to improve performance.
```

>   This functionality is behind a feature flag: `OPTIMIZED_GIT_FETCH_FILES`.

Reviewer: remove this line

> ### Fixed issues

Reviewer: Is it standard to use past tense for fixed issues?

- The [Harness GitOps](https://developer.harness.io/docs/continuous-delivery/cd-gitops/harness-git-ops-basics) execution summary was stopping the page from loading correctly when the environment Id and name were different. (CDS-54950)

>   Now the environment Id is managed and resolved to the name and the page does not crash.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Now the environment Id is managed and resolved to the name, and the page does not crash.
```

- When saving a template in template studio, unsaved changes were displayed even though the template had been saved. (CDS-54842)

>   A force reload of the page was not happening when a template was updated. This issue has been fixed and now a force reload occurs and only the saved changes are displayed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  A force page reload did not occur during the template update. This issue is fixed. Now a force reload occurs, and only the saved changes appear in the page.
```

- Harness was unable to resolve any settings using expressions in the Jenkins artifact resource. (CDS-54670)

>   [Harness integrates with Jenkins](https://developer.harness.io/docs/continuous-delivery/cd-execution/cd-general-steps/run-jenkins-jobs-in-cd-pipelines/), enabling you to run Jenkins jobs and dynamically capture inputs and outputs from the jobs. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  [Harness integrates with Jenkins](https://developer.harness.io/docs/continuous-delivery/cd-execution/cd-general-steps/run-jenkins-jobs-in-cd-pipelines/) to run Jenkins jobs and dynamically capture inputs and outputs from the jobs. 
```

>   In cases where an expression was used in the Jenkins connector, Harness was unable to resolve the expression because the frontend was not sending the pipeline Id to the runtime API call to the backend correctly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  When an expression was used in the Jenkins connector, Harness was unable to resolve the expression because the frontend was not sending the pipeline Id to the runtime API call in the backend correctly.
```

>   This has now been fixed and expression can be resolve correctly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This issue is fixed and expression can be resolve correctly.
```

- The default **Timeout** value for certain steps is too long and can lead to failure identification taking too long. (CDS-54607)

>   The default **Timeout** value was 1 day (`1D`) for certain steps. It has now been changed to 10 minutes (`10m`).

Reviewer: It is changed to 10 minutes now.

  
  This impacts the following step types:

  - ServiceNow Create
  - ServiceNow Update
  - ServiceNow Import Set
  - Jira Create
  - Jira Update
  - Email
- Variables of type Number were not supporting expressions when set as runtime inputs.	(CDS-54554)
  

>   Harness was not accepting expression in Number type variables when they were used as runtime inputs. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Harness was not accepting expressions in Number type variables when they were used as runtime inputs. 
```

  
  You can now use expressions for Number variables without any issue.
- Expressions used in runtime inputs for the Jenkins connector were not getting resolved. (CDS-54523)
  
  Jenkins artifacts were not working with the Jenkins connector when the connector name was set as a runtime input.
  

>   Now the connector Identifier is resolved correctly for runtime inputs and the correct settings, such as artifact path, can be fetched.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Now the connector Identifier is resolved correctly for runtime inputs, and the correct settings such as artifact path, can be fetched.
```

- Expressions used in runtime inputs for the AWS connector with ECR artifacts were not getting resolved. (CDS-54520)
  
  ECR artifacts were not working with the AWS connector when the connector name was set as a runtime input.
  

>   Now the connector Identifier is resolved correctly for runtime inputs and the correct settings, such as artifact path, can be fetched.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Now the connector Identifier is resolved correctly for runtime inputs, and the correct settings such as artifact path, can be fetched.
```

- The **File Path** setting in the AWS S3 artifact source were showing artifacts in reverse historical order (oldest to latest). (CDS-54267)
  

>   The file paths were being sorted in ascending order of last modified.

Reviewer: remove this line as it is repeated

>   The file paths are being sorted in descending order of last modified. The **File Path** setting in the AWS S3 artifact source now displays artifacts from latest to oldest.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The file paths are now sorted in descending order of last modified. The **File Path** setting in the AWS S3 artifact source now displays artifacts from latest to oldest.
```

> - The Artifactory **Artifact Details** settings were not updated when a new repo was selected.	(CDS-54087)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The artifactory **Artifact Details** settings were not updated when a new repository was selected.	(CDS-54087)
```

>   Now when you select a new repo, the settings are cleared and you can select new values for the new repo.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  When you select a new repository, the settings are now cleared, and you can select new values for the new repository.
```

> - The Artifactory **Artifact Details** settings had the **Repository** URL as mandatory, but it was optional in the pipeline **Service** tab. (CDS-54025)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The artifactory **Artifact Details** settings had the **Repository** URL as mandatory, but it was optional in the pipeline **Service** tab. (CDS-54025)
```

  Now the **Repository** URL can be set as a fixed value or runtime input in the **Service** tab and it is treated as mandatory when you run the pipeline.

> - When selecting a **Custom Remote** source for a Helm Chart, the Helm command **Pull**, **Fetch**, **Add**, and **Update** flags were shown. (CDS-53927)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- When selecting a **Custom Remote** source for a Helm chart, the Helm command **Pull**, **Fetch**, **Add**, and **Update** flags were shown. (CDS-53927)
```

>   Harness does not support these flags when Custom Remote Store is used. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Harness does not support these flags when custom remote store is used. 
```

>   They have been removed from the **Custom Remote** source for a Helm Chart (Kubernetes and Native Helm).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  They are removed from the **Custom Remote** source for a Helm chart (Kubernetes and Native Helm).
```

  | Before  | Now   |
    |-------------- | -------------- |
    | ![before](static/1a78090c877ce6e18edae5b79260ec1be819671a8214720724b04f1f734df665.png) | ![after](static/20ec5c09ae229939a2dce0848fb741453f58750c60ecd1f291c1070b14ddb15e.png) |
- Users are unable to fetch Google Artifact Registry (GAR) artifacts with package names that use `/`.	(CDS-53908)
  
  We now support GAR artifact sources that use package names containing `/`.

> - When updating a trigger that uses Nexus 3 artifact types NuGet and Maven, the older YAML were retained. (CDS-53893)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- When updating a trigger that uses Nexus 3 artifact types, NuGet and Maven, the older YAMLs were retained. (CDS-53893)
```

>   Now when switching from NuGet and Maven the updated values are used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Now when switching from NuGet and Maven, the updated values are used.
```

> - Helm steady state check for Kubernetes version 1.16+ was not working properly with manifests fetched using a Custom Remote store. (CDS-53867)

Reviewer: Does version 1.16+ mean 1.16 or later?

>   Harness uses Helm steady state check (`helm status`) to verify that a deployment is successful. This check was not working with Kubernetes version 1.16+ for manifests fetched via the Custom Remote store because we were not supporting the Custom Remote store.

Reviewer: Do we use 'via' here. I prefer using 'through'. If the style guidelines at Harness allow via, ignore this comment.

  We have now added the Custom Remote and Harness File Store stores to the Helm supported store types list.

> - The tooltip for Nexus 2 and Nexus 3 artifact **Tag** setting wasn't clear. (CDS-53865)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The tooltip for the Nexus 2 and Nexus 3 artifact **Tag** setting wasn't clear. (CDS-53865)
```

  
  It wasn't clear that the **Tag** setting referred to the tag for the package selected in **Package**. The tooltip has been updated to clarify.
- The inline and remote options for the Create Template modal were not visible because of page length. (CDS-53779)
  
  The page length was obscuring the remote and inline options and users had to scroll to view the two options.
  

>   The height of the modal has been so the options are now visible without scrolling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The height of the modal is adjusted now so the options are now visible without scrolling.
```

> - The Harness Approval step was not splitting expression values when commas were used.	(CDS-53778)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The Harness approval step was not splitting expression values when commas were used.	(CDS-53778)
```

>   For example, in the Harness Approval step, the **User Groups** setting can be defined as a expression of two pipeline variables:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  For example, in the Harness approval step, the **User Groups** setting can be defined as an expression of two pipeline variables:
```

  ```
  (<+pipeline.variables.group1> + "," + <+pipeline.variables.group2>).split(",")
  ```
  ![user groups](static/271ffd42a5b4ee35db7b4e3697d51b76bff8a021bfa10bdd5f55343e47d172f5.png)

>   In this example, `group1` has the value `_project_all_users,testUserGroup`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  In this example, `group1` has the value, `_project_all_users,testUserGroup`
```

  and `group2` has the value `org._organization_all_users,account._account_all_users`
  referring to various user groups identifiers.

  When using the `split(",")` method, commas were not supported. Now commas are supported.
  
  :::note
  

>   Please ensure no spaces are given in variable values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Ensure that no spaces are used in the variable values.
```

  
  :::
- Error messages for Kubernetes dry run failures needed improvement. (CDS-53379)
  

>   By default, Harness Kubernetes deployment steps perform a dry run. The error messages for related failures has been improved to detect what resource failed and what binary version was used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  By default, Harness Kubernetes deployment steps perform a dry run. The error messages for related failures are improved to detect what resource failed and what binary version was used.
```

  ![error message](static/3b844b27de9cd72be3fd0502931c388b2993c7e4089dc7376a3b34eddc8467f2.png)  

> - Trigger Status & tags are not properly aligned .. it looks overlapping between these two columns.	CDS-53106		The Trigger list had overlapping columns ( TriggerName & status ), Under this JIRA [ CDS-53106 ] - fixed the overlapping issues.	Yes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Trigger status and tag columns in the trigger list appeared overlapped.	CDS-53106		
The trigger list columns now appear properly. 
```

- The Azure connector **Test** page was missing a **Back** button. (CDS-53014)

>   A **Back** button has been added so users can go back and make any changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  A **Back** button is added so users can go back and make any changes.
```

- The HTTP step error message needed improvement. (CDS-52537)
  

>   Previously only assertion logs were present. Now all logs have been added on Harness delegate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Previously only assertion logs were present. Now all logs are added on Harness delegate.
```

>   The error message for the step has been improved with these more comprehensive logs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The error message for the step is now improved with more comprehensive logs.
```

- The **Update All** button on the pipeline YAML reconcile screen was adding unnecessary changes to the YAML of each field.	(CDS-46496, ZD-38974)
  
  The Git diff in the YAML reconcile screen was performing unnecessary changes like adding quotes to each string value, shifting YAML indentation, converting multiline strings to single line using the newline character, etc.
  

>   Now users will see the correct Git diff in the Harness YAML. The diff will consist only of the necessary changes, such as the addition and removal of fields.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Now you can see the correct Git diff in the Harness YAML. The diff consist of necessary changes only, such as the addition and removal of fields.
```
